---
layout: post
title:  "GSoC Week 6"
date: "2015-06-30 03:57:02"
categories: SahilShekhawat PyDy GSoC
---

After numerous discussions and iterating we have a better understanding of the problem that we want to solve. Dynamics is a challenge for me that hold me back more times than few. So, after our last meeting we decided to redefine the timeline and this blog post is all about that.


Redefining Timeline
-------------------
**Week 6 (30th June - 6 July): Unit tests for Joints and Body**

Unit Tests for Joint Classes including specific Joint's implementation. It includes a Joint Base class along with five specific joints i.e. Pin Joint, Prismatic Joint, Cylindric Joint, Spherical Joint and Planar Joint. A lot of time will be required to finalise the structure and implementation and as all of the five joints differ in the way they works, I have taken a week to do this.

**Week 8 (7 July - 13 July): Unit tests for Joint's Method and implementation starts**

Firstly we want to get the symbolic part done. So, I will finish off JointMethod's unit tests in first 3 days. At this point we will have all the unit tests for all necessary classes i.e. Body, JointMethod, all joints etc. After this, implementation of module will begin. I will start with implementing body class. I don't think it will take much time but just taking it as a buffer period for any changes in the API. If there are no changes in API and Body is implemented, I will start implementing specific joints classes.

**Week 9 (14 July - 20 July):**

This entire week, I will implement PinJoint, PrismaticJoint and CylindricJoint. All of them are related and have similar implementation. It will take time to implement specific joints correctly. Thus, I want to go fix bugs along with the implementation. 

**Week 10 (21 July - 27 July):**

All the remaining Joint's classes will be finished i.e. ScrewJoint and PlanarJoint along with the Base Joint's class. Again testing and fixing bug will take time and I want to take an entire week.

**Week 11 (28 July - 3 August)**

More Joint's classes might be introduced during the course of 4 week. All of them will be implemented in the beginning of this week. If plan does not changes, then I will start off implementing JointMethod class. It will take an entire week to implement. After this we will have a pure symbolic background

**Week 12 (4 August - 10 August)**

At this point, all the symbolic changes will be implemented and everything will be working. Now the second phase will begin to change pydy.system class for support:

1. Assigning numeric values to the symbols, either from user or some default.
2. Adding visualization to the bodies.

This is a part which need to be discussed more but assigning numeric values is a necessity and I will start changing system's class and introduce more classes to help user provide numeric values.

**Week 13 (11 August - 17 August)**

I will try to create class to assign default value. This is a part which need to be discussed and may change but the main idea will be the same. Working on assinging numeric values to the symbols.
Will update when more details have been discussed.

**Week 14 (17 August - 24 August)**

This is the official buffer period after pen down. No new code can be written in this week. I will mainly be fixing bugs, correcting docstrings and writing more unit tests.
